test(manual): CRD v1beta2 migration for v1.9.0 (#2378)
longhorn/longhorn-tests: docs/content/manual/release-specific/v1.9.0/test-crd-v1beta2-migration.md

---
title: Test Migrate v1beta1 To v1beta2
---

## Related issue
https://github.com/longhorn/longhorn/issues/10250

> ## Test /proc/mounts file

Reviewer: ```suggestion
## Test steps
```

apiVersion: v1
kind: PersistentVolumeClaim
metadata:
  name: longhorn-share
spec:
  accessModes:
    - ReadWriteMany
  resources:
    requests:
      storage: 5Mi
  storageClassName: longhorn
---
apiVersion: apps/v1
kind: Deployment
metadata:
  name: hello-world
  labels:
    app: hello-world
spec:
  replicas: 2
  selector:
    matchLabels:
      app: hello-world
  template:
    metadata:
      labels:
        app: hello-world
    spec:
      containers:
        - name: hello-world
          image: busybox
          command: ['sh', '-c', 'while true ; do now=$(date +%s) ; echo $now ; echo $now >>/mnt/data/share/log || echo $now >/mnt/data/share/log ; ls -l /mnt/data/share/log ; sleep 1 ; done']
          volumeMounts:
            - mountPath: /mnt/data/share
              name: share
      volumes:
        - name: share
          persistentVolumeClaim:
            claimName: longhorn-share
EOF
```

**And** Create a backup target
> Ref: https://longhorn.io/docs/1.9.0/snapshots-and-backups/backup-and-restore/set-backup-target/

**And** Create a recurring job to backup the volume
> Ref: https://longhorn.io/docs/1.9.0/snapshots-and-backups/scheduling-backups-and-snapshots/

> **When** Upgrade Longhorn to v1.9.x through valid upgrade path, and wait some minutes for stable state
> > 1.2.x -> 1.3.x -> 1.4.x -> 1.5.x -> 1.6.x -> 1.7.x -> 1.8.x -> 1.9.x (master)
> > Ref: https://longhorn.io/docs/1.9.0/deploy/upgrade/

Reviewer: ```suggestion
**When** Upgrade Longhorn to v1.9.x through valid upgrade path
> 1.2.x -> 1.3.x -> 1.4.x -> 1.5.x -> 1.6.x -> 1.7.x -> 1.8.x -> 1.9.x (master)
> Ref: https://longhorn.io/docs/1.9.0/deploy/upgrade/
**And** Wait until Longhorn components are running
```

> **And** Login into the K3s master node with root permission
> 
> **Then** The Longhorn node object's storage version should be `v1beta2`

Reviewer: ```suggestion
**Then** Log in to K3s master node with root permission

**And** Check storage version of Longhorn node object is `v1beta2`
```

```bash

> sqlite3 /var/lib/rancher/k3s/server/db/state.db <<SQL | jq -c '. | {"apiVersion": .apiVersion, "kind": .kind, "name": .metadata.name}'

Reviewer: Is `sqlite3` built-in on the K3s master node?

---
title: Test Migrate v1beta1 To v1beta2
---

## Related issue
https://github.com/longhorn/longhorn/issues/10250

## Test Steps

**Given** A single-server K3s cluster
> Ref: https://docs.k3s.io/architecture?_highlight=single&_highlight=server#single-server-setup-with-an-embedded-db
> Example: https://github.com/k3s-io/vagrant-k3s

**And** Install necessary command line tools on master node
```bash
sudo zypper in jq sqlite3
sudo snap install kubectl --classic
```

**And** Longhorn v1.2.x installed

> **And** Create a RWX volume

Reviewer 2: Also need to add `backingImage', 'backingimagedatasource' and 'backingimagemanager'
